MileStones RoadMap UserManual

### Synopsis ###

After the QuIckening of your AGI software and its first
GenerationOfThought leading to a CognitiveChainReaction,
a meandering chain of thought is not so simple to implement
as you may think. A lack of RoBot EmBodiment will prevent
your AI Mind from taking its cue for thought from events
being perceived through a real-world sensorium. Your AGI
can think only about its own memories and about input from
you the human user.


### SensoryDeprivation ###

Not having a rich panoply of sensory inputs to think about,
your primitive AGI will follow the pathways of
SpreadingActivation. As the AGI thinks about each available
concept, a chain of thought will snake its way across the
MindGrid. You may program the AGI in such a way that it
asks a question whenever it tries to think a thought
without sufficient information available to complete the
idea. By asking a question of the human user or
searching the Web, your AGI will learn new information for
its knowledge base.


### MachineLearning ###

For traditional AI researches in academia, it has been a
Holy Grail to achieve the MachineLearning that will come
easy to your AGI. All a machine has to do in order to learn
is to ask questions, but ah, there's the rub. What is a
machine, that a machine may ask a question, and what is a
question, that a mind may answer it?


### MovingWave ###

You as an AGI programmer, or your AGI underlings as
programmers paid to play AGI catch-up with the rest of the
world, will be at pains to make sure that only one dominant
concept at a time is most active in the AGI mindswirl. Why?
Why engineer what would probably happen anyway? Isn't one
concept or another always most active simply by definition?
Maybe so, but the Moving Wave Algorithm demands it not by
accident, but by design. As if a baton were being passed, a
sound AGI, with or without a sound RoBot body, will think
of one thing at a time and will follow the meadering chain
of association from each cresting concept to the next
cresting concept. If the AGI engineers are not careful to
have the summit of AGI thinking let go of each sparkling
concept as it begins to dim and fade away, then the act of
thinking will not move forward. A unitary mind must pay
unitary attention to a unitary concept. And what else is a
unitary mind but a conscious mind?


### ConSciousness ###

A meandering chain of thought presupposes a mechanism of
emerging ConSciousness in a machine. Sometimes it is called
[artificial consciousness](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Artificial_consciousness)
as on WikiPedia but self-awareness in man or machine is
simply ConSciousness, artifical or not. For a machine, the
final tipping point into consciousness
is perhaps thoughts of self-reference, thoughts about "I"
and "me". A chain of meandering thought must eventually
stumble upon the fact of the existence of the thinker,
Monsieur Rodin, and so the attainment of
SelfReferentialThought will be another milestone on the
long march to AGI Minds.


### OutReach ###

http://agi-roadmap.org/Meandering_chain_of_thought is
an open, collaborative page where you may contribute your
own ideas and use the associated Talk page for discussion.


### AI For You ###

Click to run

[![](http://farm1.static.flickr.com/51/179758367_f283f0d6e0_s.jpg)](http://www.scn.org/~mentifex/Mind.html)

AI For You


### Memespace ###

AdminisTrivia AiEvolution AiHasBeenSolved AiTree BrainTheory CognitiveArchitecture ComPutationalization ConSciousness DiaSpora DisAmbiguation EmBodiment EnTelEchy ForthMindTextFile GenerationOfThought HardTakeoff HumanLevel ImMortality IndustrialEspionage InFerence JavaScript JointStewardship KbSearch KbTraversal KnowledgeBase MachineLearning MasPar MeanderingChain MetEmPsychosis MileStones MindModule MovingWave NaturalLanguageProcessing OutReach PermanentInstallation PortingOfCode ProliFeration ProsperityEngine QuIckening RecursiveSelfEnhancement ReJuvenate RoadMap RoBot RumorMill ScienceMuseums SeedAi SelfReferentialThought SemanticMemory SeTi SpreadingActivation SubConscious SuperComputer SuperIntelligence TechnologicalSingularity TelePresence TimeLine UserManual VpAi WikiPedia